---
layout: single
title:  "Why A Blog?"
date:   2021-02-27 10:47:39 -0800
published: false
---
Whether or not I had realized it before now, I think that the creation of a personal blog and website has been in the making for a long time. Before I get into my personal motivations for creating this blog, however, I think it’s best I begin with the context that led to this decision and some of the important realizations that have steered me towards this decision.

During the latter half of my first and early half of my second year at Stanford, I, like many of my peers, began to realize that college wasn’t the end of the road. While this may seem like somewhat of a truism (as many of my claims might sound throughout this article), I think it’s important to distinguish between facts that I *know* and facts that I have internalized, grappled with, and understood. After twelve years of guidance by the singular, sensible, and overarching goal of attending college as a means of beginning the rest of my life, I began to realize that the goal had inherently implied there would be a “rest of my life” to deal with. In my first two quarters at Stanford, I mostly rested on my laurels and took the time to make friends, adjust to the pace of life in the bubble, and generally get settled in, without much thought of directionality. As I slipped into rhythm, I began turning towards the future—which was my first mistake—which led me to begin asking critical questions about where I would want to be in the next 5-10 years and how I could best prepare myself to end up in those positions. Naturally, this led to further questions about my personal goals, values, interests, motivations, and yes, even my identity. 

The sudden plunge into Stanford’s diverse, vibrant, and talented student body introduced me to more ideas, perspectives, and possibilities in a matter of months than I had been exposed to in eighteen years at in my hometown which hosted truckers, commuters, farmers, and family values. I soaked in as many late-night conversations as my body could handle (at the expense of plenty of sleep), thinking that I could make sense of it all, only to find myself overwhelmed by varied and often contradictory ideas about society, personal goals, community, and even drug use.

I sought answers in various intellectual and scientific texts ranging from philosophy, to psychology, to quantum physics, and even metaphysics. I felt soothed by Douglas Hofstader’s book “I am A Strange Loop” where he details his mathematical and computational theory of the self and grounded my moral beliefs in classic texts, but still felt a lack of wholeness in these intellectual answers. At the apex of my phase of existential inquiry, I ended my relationship, cut many ties with people in my life, and sought solitude, just before the pandemic forced chaos and then stillness onto the world. 

At the turn of the pandemic, I found myself living in the solitude I has been looking for at a friend’s house in Lake Tahoe, where I reconnected with nature, found awe on a daily basis, and had enough quiet to begin to sort out my own values. I began to view my mind as a room where various people’s belongings had piled up over the years only to be forgotten, eventually spending enough time there for me to mistake them as my own. I had misidentified other’s beliefs and moral imperatives as my own and lost sight of what mattered to me and why. The stillness that fell upon the world in the Spring of 2020 gave me the space to clear out my room, identify my own first principles, and rebuild my sense of purpose around my own genuine values, interests, strengths and beliefs. 

The months that followed consisted of the practical implications of this journey as I continued reading, learning, and forming practices that would enable me to carry this stillness with me into the world. I went about the work of identifying my personal interests—including fitness, wellness, education—my personal values—including kindness, empathy, and some degree of active Stoicisim—and my personal strengths—including quantitative reasoning, radical introspection, and curiosity. 

Throughout this chapter of my life, I came to realize that I had many thoughts and opinions that don’t deserve to remain imprisoned in my head. As a self-proclaimed lifelong student of purpose, I felt a need to establish some medium where my thoughts can find a home so I can continue to reflect on my personal growth. Today, I wish that I could peek into past-me’s mind so I can observe the ways in which I have and have not grown and changed. Although I’ve gone back and forth about the best medium with which to do this—having considered vlogs, Tik Toks, personal journaling, podcasts, and even more abstract forms of art, I eventually landed on the creation of a personal website/blog. I feel that this project represents the marriage of my interest in computer science, my desire to contribute to the intentional and empathetic education of the next generation, and my desire to share my thoughts with the world. Furthermore, my interest in education has also recently inspired me to cultivate better communication skills as well as the courage and vulnerability to create. As both a college application essay editor and an Artificial Intelligence instructor for high school students, I have identified my own need to develop clarity, concision, and decisiveness in my words. I don’t think I could have identified these goals prior to the development of this project, but I am now entirely convinced by them.

Through this blog, I hope to share lessons I’ve learned, lessons I will continue to learn, projects I am working on, opinions I have, and interests I develop as they develop. In short, I hope to better document my life for the purpose of personal reflection and, if anyone who happens to stumble upon it enjoys a word or two, I would consider that a pleasant upside to this 