---
layout: single
title:  "Welding, AI, and Meaningful Work"
date:   2021-02-27 10:47:39 -0800
published: true
---
<body>
<div>It takes dozens of hours of laying down bead after bead to fully appreciate the conjoined slabs of metal. Not just anyone could see it, but there existed a beauty in analyzing a piece of steel and being able to read the welder’s motions as if watching them liquidize the metal in real-time. Each upward and downward motion, each back step, each puddle, each curve. Every time the welder accidentally burned all the way through or every time they pulled back and released a flurry of metallic residue welders crudely dubbed “dingleberries”. </div>
<div>Visually, for those who knew what to look for, welding yielded beautiful beads that juxtaposed the danger of creating them: beads that could rival even artistic masterpieces. But the appreciation I developed for welding did not find its roots in learning to tame brilliant blue flames or to bend and alter metal like my favorite superheroes. I instead came to embrace the work that welding demanded and the way that this work could mimic all aspects of my life. 
Mastering the process demanded as much focus as any test and required as much skill and precision as any sport. Through welding, I found a way to practice practicing and mastered a process for developing my own skills through repetition, self-reflection and honest re-evaluation. In the process I found intricate and autonomous work in which my own effort determined my degree of success. I had full control over my own growth and metamorphosis...and I loved every single second of it.<div>
<div>Since then I have kept these principles at the forefront of my mind anytime I dive into a new project.  From programming, to teaching, to surfing, to various aspects of self-improvement, I find that my favorite activities are those which consist of autonmous work with tight feedback loops where I am able to quickly succeed or fail, iterate, and improve. These experiences allow me to watch myself evolve quickly and, just like a binge-worthy netflix series, there is always just enough foreshadowing of the next iteration to taunt me to stick around for just one more try, each and every time. </div>
<div> Even as I discovered my love for "meaningful work", I couldn't have predicted that I would end up *teaching* my computer to indulge in meaningful work as well. In the past few weeks, I have begun working under a PhD student named Allen at Stanford's Institute for Human-Centered Artifial Intelligence where Allen is attempting to create a program that is able to "play" student submissions of games they had programmed for their coursework. As a teacher and programmer who enjoys meaningful work, this project has been incredibly exciting for me, not least because it's incredibly meta. Basically, I will become a teacher who is teaching a computer to learn through tight-feedback loops and update it's decision policy in order to give better feedback to students by allowing them to receive quicker and more thorough feedback to better leverage the benefits of meaningful work. I expect this project to represent yet another intersection of my personal interests and hope to come out the other end with just a few more iterations under my belt.</div>
<div>*TBC....*</div>